So it's important from time to time to talk about ways that you as a web application developer
have a responsibility to create secure web applications.
And so I want to call your attention to places where you write code
that seems like on the surface that it's what could go wrong,
and then you realize, oh, wait a sec, that could go wrong.
So it turns out that you take data from the user in the request object,
whether it's from a form or from the URL, and like s=42 seems innocuous enough.
And then what I did is I just concatenated that into HTML, and I sent that back.
And so the problem is, is what if somebody with ill intent tries to produce data that
actually does something?
And the problem is, is if I take data straight from the user
and put it back in the HTML response, well, HTML and JavaScript are programming language.
Your browser is being programmed.
And that means that a user typing data into your system can program the browser.
And what's even worse is that having them program their own browser, not such a big deal.
But in a way, what they do is they put some data in your system that turns into code,
and then they kidnap someone else's browser when they take a look at data that came in.
This is called cross-site scripting, where in a sense, what it's doing is it's trying
to run code so that it can read stuff from your site and then hand it to a rogue site.
And so we have to protect against this.
And it's a very simple thing.
So if we take a look at the code that was bad, basically, we have this parameter guess.
And the last time I showed you, that was 42.
And we just took this request, get guess, which is this stuff.
And we simply concatenated it into some HTML.
Well, if I carefully construct my guess with %c3, blah, blah, blah, all that stuff, well,
that turns into-- this is a URL encoding of less than, be bold, greater than, bold, slash.
So that turns into HTML.
So I passed into this application some HTML.
And I, as the developer, took that and I concatenated it together.
So the response source has HTML.
It's HTML that mostly comes from the application, but this little bit of HTML came from the
person who put it in.
And like I said, it's not such a critical problem if I, in my browser, put stuff to
take over your browser.
But it is if you can move that into someone else's browser.
So what happens is that the browser sees this bold text in HTML, and instead of showing
us the less than and the greater than, it actually shows it to us as bold.
Now, this seems innocuous enough until you do something much more clever.
And that is I am going to carefully construct some code, JavaScript.
And so what happens is, is this here is encoding of that line right there, the script alert
owned slash script.
And so what happens is, is that came in and it was concatenated straight out.
And if you run this page, you won't see the data, but that actually JavaScript will run
and it's going to show up in an alert box that says owned and okay.
Now, you can go ahead and look at the Wikipedia entries on cross-site scripting.
Generally, the idea is, is once you're in JavaScript, you don't just say alert that
I've owned your browser, what you do is you do something like grab a cookie and send it
to a third party or you call say a web service on the system with a cookie and do bad things.
Like you can convince a teacher to log in and change someone else's grade or delete
all the grades in a class.
Once you're into a person's browser in JavaScript, you can do a lot.
So that's really quite scary and there's all kinds of scenarios where you're taking data
from the user and you got to be careful because yes, I said the guess is supposed to be a
number, but if it's not a number, if I concatenate it without escaping it, it's a problem.
So here is a safer version of that.
So I've got another view function called game and it takes that same request and it still
pulls that get data off, which is this bit right here.
But then it calls a function and that's Django utils HTML escape.
So what that does is that concatenates that into the HTML, but escape processes any dangerous
characters and turns them into what are called HTML entities.
So less than becomes ampersand LT, greater than becomes ampersand GT.
These four things with ampersands are a safer version of it and so that means that even
though I tried, I put in the data for bold, it comes out with the less than and greater
than showing and it's not actually interpreted.
So this whole notion of escaping or HTML entities, converting data, running the data from a user
through an HTML entities automatic filter ensures that the user cannot provide you data
that turns into code in there or someone else's browser eventually.
So that's the kind of thing you have to think of as you're concatenating stuff together.
And the key thing is the request get guess, that came from the user.
And so we think the user's going to be nice, but a user with bad intent can send data that
they carefully construct to cause the maximum trouble.
But if you just escape your data before you concatenate it, there's nothing they can do
about it.
So another of the views is where we're going to parse the parameter off of the URL itself.
These URLs are a little prettier sometimes than the question mark keyword equals value.
And so let's take a look at this.
The way you do this is you, in your URL patterns, you have a path and instead of just having
the path name, the view function name, you actually have this bracket int colon guess
bracket.
And what that is, and you can go look this up in the Django documentation, there's a
whole series of these things.
That says the parameter after the word rest is an integer and please pass it in as the
parameter guess.
So I've chosen the name to pass it in as a parameter.
And then once Django sees this, it pulls that 41 off and hands it to us.
So we don't have to tear the URL apart.
Actually in this request object, we do get the URL.
We can do a bunch of splits and fool around, but nah, it doesn't matter.
Let's let Django do all that work.
Let's just tell it we want that parameter after the word rest.
It's supposed to be an integer and pass it to me in the variable guess.
And then that same 41 comes in.
I am clearly escaping it before I concatenate it.
And then I return a text-based HTML response with some HTML back to the browser.
So this escape is there just because of cross-site scripting.
I'm still taking this value, still coming from the user.
So if any value comes from the user, you have to properly escape it before you show it to
them.
Now, those are all function-based, which are sort of a lower level.
We haven't got to the point where we're talking about forms, but eventually in those lower
level functions, you have to check whether you got a get request or a post request.
Post request often comes from forms.
And so this class-based view allows us to give a method for get and a method for post
and let Django pick whether it's a get or a post.
And this is an object-oriented, an object, and if you're a little rusty on objects, I've
got a URL there on pythonforeverybody.com to review just like what a self is.
I'm not going to cover all that.
In the path command, you just have a string that comes after the application, routing
to this.
The main view, as view is something you got to add to it because main view is a class,
not a function, but as view is a function.
And then we have to create a method get.
Self of course is just part of Python's object-oriented work request is that first parameter.
And so this one here is just the stock response, and I just like the other ones I returned
on HTTP response.
It's like this looks a little more complex than the other one, did the same thing, but
it turns out there is tons of things that we can do, and inheritance, the fact it's
a class, there are so many things about object-oriented programming that over the next few lectures
we're going to really take advantage of this, and we ultimately will rarely write the old
school function-based view, we'll do class-based views.
And so we can also pass parameters to class-based views just like we can pass them to function-based
views.
So you say, okay, with a prefix of remain, slug is a kind of string, and then guess is
the parameter, so that says pull the string after the word remain off, right, views is
the name of the view, remain is the view within the application, and then this third parameter
is the guess, and it's automatically parsed and handed to us in guess, and then we're
going to respond to a get request, self, of course, is the object-oriented thing, here's
the whole request, and guess is that little piece that comes off of the end of the URL,
we're going to create a response by escaping the user-provided guess bit so that if the
user puts something nasty in for cross-site scripting, ha-ha, we stop them from doing
that.
So that produces the same kind of output, your guess was abc12342xyzzy.
So talking about return values, everything we've shown you up till now is your basic
200 okay, which means you ask for a page, I gave you a page.
You're probably familiar with 404 not found, which means you ask for a page, that page
doesn't exist.
There is another kind of response that's not actually a page, which is a response header
that says, you know what, it's not like you made a mistake, but you're at the wrong place,
and it's called a redirect, and 302 means I know where you're supposed to be and it
isn't here, and it was originally used for sites that would move, and it's all handled
by the location header on the HTTP response, and so we send a redirect response, which
is a 302 with the location header being sent, and it uses a URL, and when the browser gets
that 302 and a location header, it doesn't show you what it just got, but it immediately
gets that URL, and then shows you that URL, and the original idea was that if you rename
a domain or something, you wanted to have the old domain, redirect web browsers and
search engines use these 302s, there's also a 301 header that can be used to redirect
all this stuff, but now we use it for all kinds of things, and it's very much a controller
function if you go to model view controller.
Controller says, okay, we're done with that, but I want your browser to go over there,
so that routing, that sort of routing the browser, changing the browser, putting the
browser where you want it to be, that's part of the application's controller phase.
So we can send a redirect from a Django view, and so here we go, if you go to this bounce,
it's going to actually not end up at this, it's gonna bounce it to somewhere else, and
in the path, we just say if you go to the bounce view, run to this function, this is
not a class-based function, this is an old-school function, and so the request data is passed
in, and instead of now returning an HTTP response, which we would put in here HTML, we are doing
an HTTP response, redirect, and now we put a URL, and what we're saying with this whole
thing is you're at the wrong place, please browser, when you get this response back,
go here, so it's like it bounces to the browser, and then bounces back, and then reads that
URL, so, and you don't, you can have some output, but folks generally don't need output
when you're doing a redirect.
So if you take a look at that bounce, watching it in your network console in a JavaScript
debugger, what you see is you see a set of three requests, actually just two, you'll
see the first request is going to bounce, and if we take a look at this request, we
see that it's a 302, it's kind of small, you see we got a 302, which tells the browser
something's wrong, I'm not at the right place, and then also the server sends the location
header that says this is where you're supposed to be, and the browser immediately turns around
and does a get to that URL, simple.htm, and then that's what we see, and then this 404,
interestingly, the three statuses I talked to you about, is because at this new location,
djfree.com/simple.htm, there's no favicon, remember the favicon is the thing that shows
up like right there in the top tab bars, the favicon, and I don't have a favicon, at least
not now, or djfree, I should put a favicon there, but we get to see a 404, and all that
means is the browser looked for a favicon and didn't find it.
So we see a 302, which is moved, with a location header, and then we see a get, which returns
then a 200, which is a success, and we see the document, and then we see a 404, because
it tries to grab the favicon, and so the HTML you get back from djfree.com/simple.htm, that's
this simple page with a simple link, okay, so that's how the redirect works.
So that's a series of views, both the input, class base, function base, and to both the
HTTP response and the HTTP redirect response.
So up now, come up next, we're going to talk about how building templates makes us do a
lot less than catenation.